---
date: '2025-09-30T12:02:39-05:00'
draft: false
title: 'Glossy Gyaru'
showAuthor: false
---

Among the countless Federation service members that saw action in the Midterm Insurgency, one of the most photogenic was the crew and infantry escort of one MBT-31 Foxtrotter: the “Glossy Gyaru.”
The Glossy Gyaru was a tank from Company F of the 2nd Armored Battalion, 6th Armored Brigade. When she deployed for the Midterm Insurgency, she was detached to support the infantry of Company G, 3rd Infantry Battalion, 6th Armored. Together with those infantrymen, this tank seen action throughout the Midterm Insurgency.
The Midterm Insurgency was an internal conflict within the Federation between 1974 to 1979. The etymology of the name is two-fold: The conflict coincided with the Midterm Elections of 1974, and was largely resolved by the Midterm Elections of 1978, hence the conflict’s association with the Midterms. Additionally, though some people consider this to be the Federation’s “second civil war” (due to sharing some similarities to the Federation Civil War), the Federation government had not declared a state of war during the conflict. Instead, government archives and official statements describe the period as a time of internal strife, thus its description as an insurgency.
Despite “insurgency” sounding singular, the conflict was characterized by broad internal strife across the Federation. There was a motley of belligerents, ranging from pro-democracy protesters to anti-furry mobs, to syndicalist freedom fighters, to rebellious local governments, to political provocateurs, to a motley of other extremist groups. Each of these groups have different objectives, and arose with different contexts. A very long story short: the Midterm Insurgency was inflamed in 1974 due to racial tensions between Furries and the anti-Furry citizenry, culminating in the 1974 Midterms which resulted in many pro-Furry politicians being elected into Federation positions. Anti-Furry proponents began to riot across the Federation in denial of the elections, which prompted other extremist groups to arm themselves. In the end, the Federation military was prompted to stamp out these various sources of dissent, through all means enabled by the newly elected delegation.
By the time of the Midterm Insurgency, the “Glossy Gyaru” should have been stricken from the Federation Army inventory. She was an unmodified MBT-31 Foxtrotter, built during the design’s original production run in the late-1960’s. By the mid-1970’s, the Glossy Gyaru and tanks of similar age should have been considered obsolete. However, the start of the Midterm Insurgency meant that the Federation Army couldn’t wait for desperately needed weapons and materiel. Thus, the Glossy Gyaru’s retirement was postponed, and the tank was immediately pushed into deployment with the 6th Armored.
As part of the 6th Armored, the Glossy Gyaru seen action throughout the Federation heartlands, suppressing forces hostile to Federation law. Most of these missions were policing actions: Tanks patrolling cities that were prone to racial violence or political separatism, as a “show-of-force” deterrence against further dissent. A few others, however, were missions that fought against groups armed and hostile groups that defied Federation laws. In those missions, military tanks supported soldiers and policemen by providing cover with their heavy armor or, in some rare instances, providing fire support. The Glossy Gyaru was photographed in many of those engagements, providing direct fires against entrenched rebels in rural lands.
Though tanks can be considered as overkill in a counter-insurgency campaign, they represent the willingness of the Federation government to assert its authority, its enacted laws, and its democratic processes.
The many pictures of the Glossy Gyaru became prolific in Federation history, showcasing the journey of unassuming Federation soldiers — trained to fight foreign wars for the Federation — then asked to take arms against other Federation citizenry. The pictures also grew to represent the Federation’s resolve to assert its enacted morals, no matter the cost.
